is Godfrey DiGiorgi.
Thank you very much.
It's a pleasure to see so
many people here today.
You are the survivors.
There's only a couple
more sessions after this.
There are feedback forums,
which we would like you to attend.
And without any further ado,
as tenacious as you are,
I'd like to introduce Mike Rossetti, Mr.
Tenacious himself.
Okay.
Thanks, Jonathan.
That's a joke.
All right.
Well, welcome.
There was this Microsoft engineer
and this Cocoa engineer
and Godfrey on this train.
Sorry I'm not going there.
We'll do this instead.
So welcome.
No, you're not getting that joke.
I'll tell you later
if you really want it.
They should put a "up",
this side "up" on here.
Okay.
Why are you here today?
Well, we're going to be slightly
irreverent in this session.
Maybe crack a couple of inside jokes.
You'll pick them up.
But I certainly hope that this
session is going to be full of good
information that will help you make
a decision in how you're going to
approach your development in getting
your application onto Mac OS X.
And so that's the intent
of the presentation today.
Now, these objectives that are on this
slide haven't changed in years.
They haven't changed since 1985, really.
And so I don't think there's any
need to go through each one of them.
I mean, the languages have changed.
The operating systems have changed.
But the goal of any framework
is to make it possible for you
to get your application out and
going and take advantage of the
wonderful Mac OS technology.
And we think that the
Apple C++ frameworks are the
key to success in this realm.
Here's what we're going to discuss today.
Many of you are familiar with Mac App.
One more poll question.
How many of you are
familiar with Mac App?
Very good.
And there's a number of you
who'd like to be a little more
familiar because of the C++ term.
Is that correct?
Okay.
We're going to talk about
the Apple Class Suites,
which is a new offering,
or should I say an offspring of Mac App.
And you may remember that, you know,
previously Mac App was this huge
monolithic framework where if you,
it's like a camel, you know,
the nose got in the tent and all
of a sudden you had this big beast.
Well, it's not that way anymore,
and anyone familiar with
Mac App over the last few years
knows that that's the case.
We want to talk about a few new
Mac OS features and how you can take
advantage of those in ACS and Mac App.
And we want to talk about our
progress in the C++ standard
library adoption that we have.
And, of course,
to iterate over the Project Builder
CodeWarrio development environments.
What we won't discuss,
this is not a tutorial on Mac App.
So, if you're hoping to learn everything
there is to know about Mac App,
come next year when we'll
have about six sessions.
This isn't going to be a tutorial on ACS.
We're not going to
teach you all about C++.
What we're going to do is hit the
highlights of our C++ offerings that
will leverage your investment in your
current C++ code or what you'd like,
decide you'd like to do.
You know, we want to help you get that
killer application out there.
Now,
you might have seen this slide earlier.
And this is one of the advantages of
having a late afternoon Friday slide.
You can go rip off the other sessions.
And, well, there have been many
frameworks introduced since
1985 when Mac App came out.
And before Mac App,
there were a few other things like
ClassGal and some small talk stuff.
But Mac App was really the first
commercially available framework.
And some other frameworks like to roll
out their pedigree like there's some
royal heritage associated with it.
But with Mac App and ACS,
we think... we've taken the next step.
So, 7 of 9 in this slide
represents Mac App Release 15,
and then R2D2 represents ACS.
Well, how does this all fit together?
Essentially, we want you to take your
investment in your product,
your key
[Transcript missing]
So I gave a little bit of history
on Mac App for those of you
who aren't familiar with it.
It started in Object Pascal,
and over the years it's migrated to C++.
And it's gotten away from the monolithic
class hierarchy approach that it had.
And now we're introducing, well,
we introduced ACS a couple of years ago,
but we're able to productize it now
so that you can actually download
it and use it in your applications
without pulling in all of Mac App.
So I'm going to talk about that
a little bit more in a second.
Let's make sure I don't miss a note here.
It's about Mac App and a lot more.
It's maturing offspring.
Let's see.
So, I want to emphasize this ACS side
of things because now I don't
want you to have the wrong
impression about Mac App being
this huge monolithic framework.
For example, Tom's going to talk a little
bit about C Carbon Event,
which is a thin wrapper on
the Carbon events that you've
been hearing about all week.
Well, this C++ wrapper class on
Carbon events provides you nice,
convenient accessors and
mutators for that Carbon event.
And pre-flighting, a little robustness,
you know.
And so instead of checking for no,
we'll throw an exception
or something like that.
Things that a C++ person
really wants to see.
All right,
this is the way up until last year
or so an application written to
Mac App might have looked like.
Before that,
it would have just been Mac App.
But we introduced the Apple Class Suites.
That's what ACS is.
I think I forgot to mention that.
And so your application mixes
in a little Mac App and a little
bit of the Apple Class Suites.
Now, you can still build your
applications this way,
much to the relief of those who
have a lot of legacy code in here.
But this is no longer
the only way to do it.
You could just use ACS.
You could just pull in C string AC,
which is a thin wrapper on the
standard library string class.
And the reason we did that one
was because we wanted to provide a
little compatibility with resource
files and conversion to CFString,
things like that.
And I mentioned Carbon events.
And you can build ACS as a static
library or as a dynamic library if you
want and take advantage of everything
that's in it or just pick and choose.
But what's in it?
So here's a list of the suites,
the class suites that are available
in the Apple Class Suites.
These suites comprise ACS.
And they're basically the conceptual
children of Mac App over the years.
We've started to distill them out.
Mac App pioneered things like
dependencies and adorners and commands
and things that are now written
about in design patterns books.
So we allow you to take advantage
of that without pulling in
all of Mac App if you choose,
or you can pull in the
heavier Mac App classes.
Of course, everything we do in the C++
Frameworks group is buzzword enabled.
If we didn't use standard C++,
the cost to you would be much higher.
You'd have two different
types of iterators.
You'd have the
Mac App ACS type of iterators,
and you'd have the
standard library iterators.
Well, why do that?
So we've been moving to using
standard library iterators,
standard containers.
In fact, one of the suites we provide
in ACS is a thing called FTL,
and it provides some compatibility with
the standard library iterator classes.
I believe Tom might mention that.
So I won't steal his thunder thumper.
You'll cut that, won't you?
So, the other thing is that we try to
make it easy to take advantage of
those great Mac OS technologies.
One of those is AppleScript.
Use AppleScript.
It's wonderful.
It makes products very
valuable to people.
Look at Photoshop.
They used scriptability a long time ago.
Well, Mac App makes it possible
with very little effort.
Scriptable, recordable, attachable.
Now, most of you know what scriptable is.
I think all of you know
what scriptable is.
Most of you know what recordable is,
but attachable?
I mean, this is really cool stuff.
You can attach scripts to documents
that you save that do things like
if you try to open a document,
they ask for a password
or do something like that.
It's way cool stuff,
and we make it easy for you to use this.
I believe in Apple script, by the way.
The other key point I'd like to
make is that Apple Class Suites
works with other frameworks,
such as Power Plant.
In fact, we do have an example of that,
I believe, in the release that we have
called the counter example.
Well, with this brief introduction,
I'd like to introduce Tom Becker,
who will give an architectural
overview of some of the
work that we've been doing,
and with some emphasis on how it
will affect your code and some topics
about some of the lightweight classes.
Tom is an invaluable member of the team,
and I certainly heartily
welcome him up on stage with me.
Okay, thank you.
Tom.
Here's a clicker, by the way.
Now what button do I press?
That went backwards.
OK.
All right, so--
What I would like to do is go into a
little bit of technical detail about some
of the design issues and architectural
features in what we've got pretty
much focused on the current release,
the stuff that is new that's
available right now if you go
to the developer tools website.
And so we're going to talk
about the Apple Class Suites
and how they work by themselves,
talk about Core Foundation and
what we're doing with that,
what we're doing with standard
library and Carbon events.
Okay,
so the basic idea of Apple Class Suites,
as Mike has explained,
is that it's a lightweight
utility class library.
I wouldn't necessarily use the word
framework to describe it because
it doesn't really affect the way
that you do your programming.
It doesn't affect your overall
flow program or overall design.
Instead, it's lots of very useful C++
classes that you can take advantage
of anywhere in your application
that you feel the need to.
And it doesn't require Mac App.
So the emphasis on this has
always been lightweight,
efficient, easy to use.
And let's see.
Now, one of the new examples that
we've got is the counter example,
and that's an example that DTS did
that is written in Power Plant,
and it shows how you can use ACS in
conjunction with Power Plant,
and it shows really how easy it is.
And we just had to do a couple of
little tweaks in ACS in order to
make sure that it would go along with
Power Plant's way of doing things.
So that means, for example,
if any code in ACS throws an exception,
it actually throws an L exception so
that the standard Power Plant exception
catching code will catch it.
And so the idea there is that
ACS is very good at fitting in,
and that's the general philosophy
that we want to continue with it.
Okay.
And, you know, it's placing the emphasis
again on being easy to use,
and in order for it to be easy to use,
it has to work the way that the
calling code expects it to work.
And there are a lot of classes in ACS.
I mean,
you saw the diagram that Mike showed
with all of the suites there.
And so I can't really go
into it all in detail.
But if you're doing some work
in Power Plant and you're going,
gee,
I wish there was a class that did this,
take a look in ACS.
Like we've got a really nice class for
working with QuickTime Atom containers.
We've got a really nice class
for working with Carbon Events.
And there are also some classes
like Templatized Handle Locker
that works better than the one
that is built into Power Plant.
And you can just use it.
The footprint contribution on
something like this is in single-digit
number of K bytes kind of thing.
It's a very, very small effect.
You pay only for what you use.
There are a couple of
different ways you can use ACS.
If you are using Mac App,
you're already using ACS.
That's pretty easy right there.
Like I said,
you can create Power Plant graphical
applications and use ACS in those.
You can also,
if you have your own framework
or you've got a different
framework that you're using,
ACS is something that
could really help you out.
It helps us out with Mac App.
It could help you out
with your framework.
You can also do things that don't
have a graphical interface at all.
Several of the ACS examples that
we've got are for command line tools.
Let's see, so now moving forward,
I want to...
Let's see, switch to demo.
We've got it.
And show a little bit of what we've
got with the Carbon Event Support that
we have in Mac App.
And so this is the standard Mac app
skeleton sample application.
And this is, can you see right here
where the CPU monitor is?
And now, actually it took a little bit of
work to put this demo together
because we actually had to find
something where a Mac app wasn't
already incredibly well behaved.
But we were able to find that there
actually is an issue with mouse tracking,
so if I click, you know,
just hold the mouse down,
you can see that we're
doing an awful lot of,
you know, while not, you know,
while still down, mouse tracking in here.
So we're taxing the CPU pretty heavily.
And of course,
if you do this in your application,
what's gonna happen is your customers
are gonna ask if all of your programmers
are rejects from the Word 6 project.
And
And so you go, gosh,
what can I do about that?
And the answer is you can actually
switch to using Carbon events.
So here's the Carbon event
version of Skeleton.
I'm going to click the mouse down.
As you can see,
I'm doing mouse tracking and
auto-scrolling and stuff like that,
and the CPU usage is quite reasonable.
And the cool thing about this, you go,
well,
what do I have to do in order to do this?
And the answer is going to
come up in a future slide,
But it's pretty easy.
So, there we go.
In fact, it's one line of code.
Let me actually go ahead and--
There's the line of code.
F use Carbon events equals true.
This is the very first
release where we've got
Carbon Event Support in the framework.
By default,
we're shipping with it turned off.
We're being a little bit
conservative about it.
It's the sort of thing where there may
be some stuff in your application where
you might need to write some code in
order to fully utilize the Carbon Events.
What we're heading for is a
future release where it's going
to be turned on by default and
you get all this stuff for free.
Actually, I'm being a little bit
fast and loose here.
I actually changed two lines of code.
The other line is I changed skeleton
application to Carbon Events so
you could see which is which.
So let's get back to where I was.
OK.
Now, talking about some other really
cool stuff that we've got in
release 15 is we have a set of C++
interfaces for Core Foundation.
If you're using Carbon or
if you want to use Mac OS X,
Core Foundation is
essential for doing that.
And what we're trying to do is we're
trying to make programming with
Core Foundation natural for C++
developers so that it's object-oriented,
the syntax is as simple and
straightforward as it can be,
the error handling is done
through exceptions the way
that you would expect it.
The way to think about it,
and actually I should give credit
to Andrew Demkin on the Finder
team who helped us out with
some really great ideas for how
to structure these interfaces.
And so he's one of the key people
who's responsible for making
them as easy to use as they are.
The idea is that we're defining the
interfaces that you would expect
ought to have been there always.
And what you have to do in
order to actually start using
Core Foundation in an object-oriented
way is include the header.
And then all of your Core Foundation type
references that you already
have now are object references.
If you just go and you can start making
method calls on them and it just works.
The one caveat,
one thing you have to kind of
watch out for is if you use C++
syntax for calling Core Foundation,
if there's an error it
will throw an exception.
If you use the procedural syntax,
which then if there is an
error it will return a code or
it will not return anything.
But it won't throw, you know,
because you're just calling
this procedural interface.
But I think that's also
what you would expect too.
Okay,
now another cool thing that we have,
and this is really something that
we're just getting started on.
It's going to be something that
I think will be very useful.
But what we've got is
we've got the basic idea,
we've got an implementation
which is out there,
and we want to get it out there and
get people looking at it and get
people thinking about the issues
of how well does it work for them,
and giving us feedback on the design
and on the implementation and what
other stuff they would like to see.
And this is bridge classes between C++
standard containers and style programming
and the Core Foundation containers.
And so the first class that we
have is the Foundation Template
Library String class,
and it stores a string using a CFString.
So that it's fully compatible with the
Mac OS X APIs for Unicode strings and
for all of the new features that you
really want to be able to connect to.
But you can construct that string using
standard template library iterators,
you can construct them from
standard library strings,
you can use standard library algorithms,
you can use standard library code,
you can use standard
code from the library.
So that's a really cool thing
that we're going to be able to do.
And you can build your
own version of the String.
And it's going to be really cool.
And I think it's going to be
really cool to see how that works.
So that's a really cool thing
that we're going to be able to do.
And you can build your
own version of the String.
And it's going to be really
cool to see how that works.
I want to give a little bit of a caveat.
This is not intended to be
the absolute best string for
doing absolutely everything.
You're going to find that in some cases
you really want to use a C-CF string,
which is our object-oriented C-F string.
In some cases, you're going to just want
to use standard strings,
or you may have a library that has
come in from somewhere else that is
implemented using standard strings.
That's just fine.
Just keep on doing that.
And what FTL string can do is it
makes it incredibly easy to build
this bridge or connection between
the standard library way of doing
things and the Mac OS X interface
that you want to connect to.
Okay, now what are we actually doing
with the standard library itself?
Our basic philosophy is the
standard library is the wheel
that is like the best wheel.
We think it's great.
We are moving to adopt it.
We have done an awful lot
already in adopting it.
There is still more that we need to do.
We're taking a stepwise,
incremental approach towards doing it,
in part because we want to
bring you along with us.
And make it so that it's easy for you
to transition to the benefits of using
the standard library and your stuff.
And we also want to make sure that
we're getting it right as we go along.
But the basic idea is that
we're Apple C++ frameworks.
We're making it easy
to use C++ on the Mac.
That means we're also making it easy
to use standard C++ types on the Mac.
And so for where we're at
right now in this process,
If you use Release 15,
you will be using standard strings.
And we have put a lot of work into
compatibility so that instead of
using standard string directly,
we've created the CstringAC,
which is a very thin
wrapper on standard string,
and it will automatically
convert Pascal strings to
standard strings for you.
And we're making it very easy to convert
back and forth in order to work with
the toolbox because that's something
that we know that you need to do.
So that's an area where we're already
well along on the conversion process.
And let's see, the next one,
as far as standard containers,
we're using them in several places now.
And it's something that you
really ought to consider using.
The legacy containers that we've got,
CListAC, CDynamicArrayAC,
the standard containers are going
to replace those in pretty much
everywhere in the framework.
I think we'll continue to make the
legacy containers available so that
if you don't want to change your code,
you don't have to.
But as time goes on,
we really are going to be moving
towards using the standard containers.
We think they're more efficient
and they're easier to work with.
And now as far as streams are concerned,
there are some really nifty
features in ACS streams.
And we're looking at ways that we can
make it so that those features will be
available with standard streams as well.
But for right now,
we're continuing to use ACS streams
because things like counting streams and
handle streams are so incredibly useful.
And we're not going to get
away from that right now.
Okay, for Carbon Events, check out the
C Carbon Event AC class in ACS.
It makes it really easy, convenient,
and safer to access Carbon Events.
Whether you're using Mac App or not,
actually,
especially if you're not using Mac App,
if you're going to look at one class,
this is the class I would recommend
that you take a look at because it
will make it an awful lot easier
for you to get up and running on
Carbon Events if you're using your
own framework or if you're using a
different framework other than Mac App.
If you are using Mac App,
then you might want to consider
writing one more line of code.
Okay, so let's bring back Mike.
Thank you, Tom.
Good stuff there.
Let's talk for a minute about
the challenge of getting your
microphone in your back pocket.
I should have shaved this morning.
Okay,
I think you got the impression from Tom.
These aren't slides,
these aren't just slides.
This stuff actually works.
It's ready for you today.
Go to the Mac App website, download ACS,
take a look at it, give us some feedback,
tell us if you like it,
tell us what you don't like about it,
we'll fix it.
But you can move your applications
to Mac OS X today and take
advantage of these features.
And there are people who
are actually doing it.
There are some in the audience
who have already moved R15.
In fact,
there are some in the audience who moved
R15 after it was posted on Tuesday.
There are wonderful PowerBooks that
they are carrying around with
them using AirPort today.
Incredible technology, isn't it?
I'll mention a couple.
Artma Medical Technologies,
they've got a couple of applications.
Virtual Implant Navigator,
Virtual Implant Simulator.
They use Mac App and QuickTime.
Scheduled for a summer release.
This is an application that
helps dentists in the planning
and drilling of dental implants.
I was hoping to have a demo.
Tom Myers and his crew, Pete Hawk,
this is BD Biosciences, is that right?
That's Pete.
Well, I mentioned Tom anyway.
BD BD.
They're porting a suite of
applications and drivers to
OS X that use the C++ framework.
Flow Cytometry.
This is like blood analysis.
Another wonderful demo.
They're in various stages of development,
looking to launch six applications and
three drivers by the end of the year,
followed on by three more.
TextCo has -- that's Anders, isn't it?
Anders Pitta.
Texco is his client.
Gene Construction Kit 2.5.
Okay, coming, he says on here,
possibly a beta test
version within a week.
And, okay, so what else?
I mentioned Calc and
Apple System Profiler,
and Calc is about my level of capability,
and I'll let Mark take the real
complex Apple System Profiler.
We would have had a really great
experience converting Calc.
It just was too short of an effort.
It literally took minutes of work.
It essentially took about five
minutes to set up the project,
builder project, then I compiled.
And unfortunately,
I shot myself in the foot by
changing do-need-disk-space,
which will be familiar to old Mac appers,
to a const C++ function.
And as you know,
when you change a function to const,
it has this ripple effect.
But I'm happy to say I've
shot you all in the foot,
too.
The lesson for this is do not
postpone your day of constness.
The other thing I did was I used
pre-built resources in the example,
so when you take a look at Calc,
you'll notice that all the resources
have been pre-built in there.
The reason for that was because when
I did this project late last year,
the resource compiler wasn't quite ready.
It is ready now,
and so we'll put an update in that
will actually build the resources
for you using project builder.
It wasn't a big deal.
So, quick build,
and Calc was ready to run as
an honorable Maco citizen.
Let's see,
now let me bring Mark Dawson up.
There we go.
Let me bring Mark Dawson up.
He's the author, I guess I could say,
of Apple System Profiler.
And Apple System Profiler is a
wonderful application for demonstrating
Mac app and ACS capabilities.
I'll let Mark talk to that.
But it is fully
scriptable and recordable,
isn't it?
Is it recordable?
No, it's recordable.
Okay, well it's wonderfully scriptable.
Yes.
And I'll let him address this.
Mark?
Okay.
Well, for those of you who don't know,
Apple System Profiler creates
a profile of your software
and hardware on your drive.
On OS 9, it can find a lot of stuff.
On OS 10, it can actually,
using some routines,
find even more stuff on your drive.
Using Mac App,
it was extremely fast to make the port.
Some of you were last year, just before,
actually a few hours before the demo,
I was able to demo
Apple System Profiler coming up
on OS X using Carbon and Mac App.
In the worldwide beta,
I was able to ship a product,
and then around December,
I was able to port in about one
week with the code I had to Mac O.
And Apple System Profiler ships
on OS X as a Mac O application
in the 10.0 release and on.
*starts to cough*
It was a very quick transition,
I'd say two weeks for the UI.
Going from the R14 to the R15
was only about a couple days.
And most of the transition time
I took was to use a lot of the
new ACS classes that help a lot.
Right now, I have two versions of
Apple System Profiler,
one for OS X and one for OS 9.
The OS 9 one still uses CodeWarrior 4,
just for compatibility reasons.
I can ship the same exact source
code with only a few power defines
from R15 and Mac OS and also OS 9.
So it's just a matter of one's
compiled on CodeWarrior and one's
compiled on Project Builder.
So it's actually that easy.
And what really made that transition
smooth was using the ACS suites.
As Mike said,
my application is very scriptable.
I think, I believe in the Carbon book,
it is actually an example of
scripting for Apple programs.
It's probably the next most
scriptable program after the Finder.
And what has really helped me was
the ACS classes for scripting.
You just take,
basically you shove a value in
a variable and you pass it and
Mac App takes care of everything else.
I don't really know how
to script an application,
to be honest.
If something breaks, I have to go to Tom.
Because it's so easy,
I actually haven't had to learn it,
which may be good, maybe it's bad,
but I haven't had to do it.
And Apple System Profiler
is fully scriptable.
Again, the transition was very,
very small.
Most of the problems I had
is I was the test case,
the big app test case for most of
Mac App as it was being brought up.
And as part of the Mac App team,
if I found something, I had to fix it.
So, actually Mac App has been tested
on Apple System Profiler and I use
quite a bit of Mac App and all my
tabs and controls and everything.
Unfortunately for some of you,
I don't use pop-ups.
So I know that's one of
the things that's come up.
But it has been a very...
It's been a quick transition.
It's gone very smooth.
Again, I say the ACS classes have really,
really helped.
I'm as much of a developer as any of you.
I run into all the same problems.
I read the Carbon list all the time.
And ACS again and again has helped me.
And then Mac App,
I really haven't had to do much work.
It's outside of the
initial Carbon transition.
So for me as a developer and not just
reporting to Mike Rossetti over here,
Mac App has been a great win for me.
I just haven't had to do a lot of work.
I guess the lessons learned,
things you all will run into.
Carbonizing will unearth bugs.
It did for me.
You'll be really lucky
if it doesn't for you.
Most of it,
a lot of times it's memory bugs.
OS X is a great platform for catching
memory bugs because if you write to zero,
instead of the system letting you
do that and corrupting someone else,
it just crashes.
And if you've been to any of
the GDB sessions and stuff,
they have wonderful
tools for finding leaks.
Something equivalent to Spotlight
you can do using GDB and it's
really been very wonderful.
The other thing I ran into a lot,
and it's my own programming fault,
is on OS X, on Project Builder,
Bool is four bytes, not one byte.
And if you have structures that
require that you know where
things are in the structure,
you'll lose.
And I had.
And those were my bugs.
Those weren't Mac app bugs.
I have to say they were just mine.
Those are the kind of things I ran
into that had nothing to do with Mac.
But again, the stuff I had to do
with Mac app went very,
very smoothly.
The things I've done that
changed a little with ASP,
I have a single source code.
I've included the
Mac app sources into ASP.
A lot of that was done just
because so the build systems
in Apple could compile them.
They can't compile right now
sources that are outside and
libraries and applications together,
so I've had to do that.
The other thing I did
is just to save time,
I ripped out files that
I didn't particularly use.
That saves time compiling.
The other thing I did,
actually this shows up in a post.
If you have developers,
you can look on the
developer seed sites for ASP.
But I've created a static text control
using the current static text in
Mac app uses an edit text view instead
of the Carbon static text control.
And I've converted that to use that.
And it's helped a lot since the edit
text doesn't give you anti-alias text.
And that should be showing
up in a future Mac app soon.
But again,
the Mac app has made my transition a lot.
And ASP is a big app.
Well, probably medium, I'd say.
It's probably about
100,000 lines of code.
So it's not tiny.
I know some people have
a million lines of code,
but it takes a while to compile.
So I'll leave it over
here to Mike Rossetti.
And just leave you with it.
Mac App has really made my life-- Thanks,
Mark.
Thanks, Mark.
Some of you saw this slide a
little bit earlier in the week.
And I'm not actually with a slide.
I'm not actually taking a
license with what Ed said.
Ed Bose, who's done incredible work
on the Carbon event model.
He was explaining, of course,
during the session how
back in the early days,
this is how you wrote your application.
And all the applications had to
write their own event loop and their
own dispatcher and their handlers
for whatever events came through.
And then he explained that, of course,
16 years later, after he graduated-- he
graduated 16 years ago.
Don't want to give the wrong impression--
how the new Carbon event manager
actually handles a lot of this for you.
But now,
those of you with some experience in
Mac App know that we were doing this
16 years ago in Mac App because this is
the responsibility of a good framework,
is to take those things
that you do all the time,
that everybody has to do,
and provide the implementation of them.
So we're delighted that the new
Carbon event mechanism provides this
for us because now we can take-- it's a
wonderful fit for the event dispatching
that's implemented in Mac App.
And this just fits right in.
So you'll see that the dispatcher
in Mac App will become extremely
simple or maybe just disappear.
So we're very happy about this.
But we did it 16 years ago.
So one perspective is when
you build your applications,
this is the model that
you could build against.
And there's nothing wrong with this.
I mean, build a Carbon if that's
what you like to do.
But how does Mac App and
ACS fit into this model?
Well, it provides a nice higher-level
framework on top of the Carbon APIs and
the Carbon low-level framework that
they're providing in Carbon Events.
And if I say so myself,
it's a perfect fit.
I mean, do you want exceptions thrown
when there's a problem in Carbon?
Yes, I think you do.
Do you want robustness in the interfaces
so that if you pass a bad value,
that's caught?
Yes, I think you do.
So if you're using C++,
this is the way to get it.
ACS or Mac App provide that for you.
So what does Mac App and
ACS Release 15 bring to the
party besides adding 15% to 10?
Just to kind of go over this quickly,
Project Builder support,
the Core Foundation classes,
the Carbon Event support,
Standards Strings.
I think Tom said all of this.
Have this slide get in here.
And ACS is available all
by itself if you choose.
And in Project Builder,
I wanted to hit just a
couple of highlights here.
You can build the Apple Class Suites as a
static library or as a dynamic framework,
ACS.framework.
We provide some ACS stationery,
so if you want to write
Hello World with ACS,
you can put that together very easily.
Mac App projects are provided as well,
debug and a non-debug version.
Right now, we're only building them
as static libraries.
ACS is incorporated into it.
Now, you might ask why we don't provide a
framework target for Project Builder.
And the reason is because all you
Mac Appers like to touch the code.
So we're going to leave it that way for
a while just to see how it works out.
But ACS Framework is fine because
I think very few developers have
any need to actually touch the
ACS code at this point in time.
And, of course, the example projects.
CodeWarrio Pro 6 support for
all of the usual targets,
including 68K still.
And we're going to provide,
fairly quickly here,
some CodeWarrio Pro 7 projects so that
you don't have to do that for yourself.
Now keep these things in mind.
Budget your time to manage the changes
that you're going to have to adopt
as you move to Carbon because there's
changes in the APIs and the tools.
Project Builder and GDB and GCC, etc.
GCC, for example,
has helped us identify a number of
problems that were in the old framework
that we never saw with the old compilers.
So running your code through this
new compiler will expose probably
some errors you'd be surprised at.
There will be a cost, of course.
You know,
there's a little learning curve in that.
But I think we believe that the
benefits far outweigh the costs.
So be prepared for the learning curve.
And so I call this like the three
curves of the development biorhythm.
And I think they're coming
to a curve right now.
But once you get over that,
things are going to look a lot better.
Important future directions.
So keep up the work on Carbon Events.
Provide a nice wrapper
around the data browser,
something that's long been requested,
which is an MLTE view, TMLTE view,
whatever.
More work in the standard libraries.
Tom talked about Unicode strings.
Plus the same work that has
resulted in the Apple Class Suites,
where we've kind of pushed
down on Mac App and stuff have
come out on the bottom in ACS.
This is going to continue.
I mean, this is an evolving process.
So I can't promise what
you're going to see there.
But I could say that perhaps
you're going to see things like
dependencies moving down there,
or maybe event handling.
It'll become behavior-based.
I'm just spouting off
the top of my head here.
And the thing I want to
stress about all of this,
the future directions and that is,
whether you're an old Mac apper
or a new C++ programmer,
you never used a framework or
you've used some other framework,
I want to stress that
you take a look at ACS,
Apple Class Suites,
so that you get the benefit of our
working with the people within Apple to
make sure that those capabilities
are in the framework that you want.
Let us know what they are.
We'll bring up email addresses.
There's a Mac App Dev mailing list.
You can send mail directly to me.
But if we know what you want,
we'll respond.
We try to do that.
That is our ultimate goal.
We want to have fun.
We want to have a great framework.
But we also, I think,
need to make sure that
you get what you want.
That reminds me,
we hope you have a good experience.
You know,
the definition of experience is,
experience is what you get when
you don't get what you want.
We don't want it to be that way.
We want you to get what you want.
And before Godfrey comes back up,
I'd just like to thank
the developer community.
It's given us a wonderful
response and feedback so far.
And it's helped guide our efforts
to provide ACS and to do things
like make sure that Carbon events
work and that your applications are
going to be speedy under Mac OS X.
And thank you for that feedback.
Thank you for the support that you
provide each other on the mailing
list and the news group because
this is critical for developing
a consensus in the community and
making sure that we do what you want.
So please keep that good work up.
And also,
I have this little kitty cat up here
and some of you know what that means.
I'd like to thank one of
our developers for his gift,
Norio Ota, who's sitting back here.
And just wanted to tell you that
if you want to get faster email
response to your applications,
you can do that.
to your bug reports and questions.
Gifts are great,
but wonderful Mac OS X applications
are even greater,
so we encourage you to do that.
Godfrey?
Thank you, Mike.
So the whole point of the Apple C++
Frameworks is to continue to
support all the developer needs,
new Apple technologies,
and the industry standards going forward.
This is a fantastic set of technologies
for people who are Carbon developers,
who want to move forward,
who have a large body of C++
code that they want to move from
another platform and want to
stay within the C++ environment.
Information Resources.
Those of you who have been through
the other tool sessions have seen
most of these addresses before.
Our overall page for Mac OS X tools,
developer.apple.com.tools,
and the C++ Frameworks webpages at
the developer.apple.com.tools.macapp.
We get a lot of hits on these pages.
We've gotten,
I think over the course of the week,
we've had over 10,000 hits
when I called in last.
So that's quite a bit of activity.
And we have a master mailing list
for all of our mailing lists,
I mean a master webpage for
all of our mailing lists.
Mac App Dev is one of them.
There's also the Carbon Dev, Cocoa Dev,
Project Builder users.
All of these would be
useful to you as resources.
We decided to give you a back road map
through the show since this is Friday,
very nearly the last sessions of the day.
These are some of the sessions
that hallmark our tools,
various other things that you could use,
and when you get your DVDs,
because everybody at the show is
receiving DVDs of these sessions,
you can review these if you've
had to be at other sessions
over the course of the week.
Questions about C++ frameworks?
You can always contact me as the
Technology Manager for Development Tools.
I'm very interested in your feedback,
ideas, directions.
And Mike Rossetti for questions
on the frameworks themselves,
who is always extremely active
about answering those questions.